[Music]
fifteen things invented for totally
different purposes we used to think
everything has its purpose however many
items we use every day were once used
quite differently here's the history of
ordinary things to see what purpose they
serve before becoming what we know them
to be I bet you can't guess what pillows
and high heels were originally designed
for number 15 coca-cola coca-cola has a
kind of fascinating history pharmacist
John Pemberton a veteran of the American
Civil War made a concoction out of Kola
nuts and coca leaves he recommended it
to soldiers taking morphine for wounds
to treat their nervous system later he
got a business going with a soft drink
but then sold all his shares the new
owners started producing coca-cola with
coca leaves cleared of cocaine
[Music]
number fourteen black dress every woman
should have a little black dress right
up until the 1920s black clothes were
commonly worn as a symbol of mourning
and for at least two years then in 1926
Coco Chanel sewed her famous little
black dress called Chanel's forth by
Vogue in memory of her beloved
at first it was noted by movie divas and
then the dress became popular worldwide
number 13 karaoke Daisuke nuit a
Japanese rock musician played for
visitors of a cafe who wanted to sing in
between the band songs one evening he
wasn't able to be there so he gave his
colleagues a tape recording with his
part then in 1971 he invented the
machine that played music without the
vocals so the musicians relaxed while
the public enjoyed singing to the beat
number 12
Plato
this substance had initially been used
to clean wallpaper in house is equipped
with fireplaces that accumulated soot
with the emergence of vinyl wallpapers
easily cleaned with a sponge the
cleanser lost its primary purpose then a
relative of its inventor a nursery
school teacher gave this putty-like
substance to children to play with they
were overjoyed later the detergent was
removed from the substance replaced with
the colorant and the thing received its
modern name play-doh
number eleven treadmill
the prototype of a modern treadmill was
created by sir william Cobbett in 1818
to do something with idle prisoners
using their muscle power to mill grain
the prisoners held onto a horizontal
handrail and walk the sort of endless
staircase number 10 post-it notes
dr. Spencer silver was in the process of
inventing a permanent adhesive but the
resulting glue wasn't strong enough an
object unstuck with ease then his
colleague Arthur fry proposed using this
icky civ to anchor his book marks in his
hem book soon sticky papers for notes
appeared in shops and are still used
worldwide number 9 bubble wrap
the famous bubble wrap was invented by
engineers Alfred fielding and Mark
Siobhan's in 1957 it was initially to
become a three dimensional plastic
wallpaper but the idea didn't quite work
out still the inventors noted that the
material could be used for packaging and
soon the patented bubble wrap became
indispensable in various areas
[Music]
number eight Vaseline in the mid 19th
century oil field workers always fought
the waxy substance that accumulated in
the oil rig pumps the British chemist
Robert Chesebrough though saw an
opportunity
he took a part of this petroleum jelly
did some research and found that it had
useful properties as a result the range
of its use and those early years became
very broad from curing wounds to
cleaning carpets
number seven slinky slinky was actually
not a kid's toy initially Richard T
James a naval engineer was once working
on a means for suspending sensitive
shipboard instruments and accidentally
dropped attention spring that crawled
away merrily that's when the idea for a
children's toy was born and soon slinky
appeared in shop windows
James spring in wire company has sold
more than 300 million of these toys
number six Listerine Joseph Lawrence
invented this antiseptic in 1879 to
clean surgical instruments it was even
named after surgeon dr. Joseph Lister
however people saw its potential and
started using it everywhere treating
wounds dentistry curing dandruff and
fungi and even as a deodorant it became
wildly popular in the 20s when the first
advertisement came out for Listerine a
girl was turning away from her fiancee
with bad breath and asking herself can I
be happy with him in spite of that
[Music]
number five viagra
Fiser was developing a cardiac disorder
treatment but the clinical trials showed
the new medication was quite useless in
this regard however an unusual
side-effect was noted the substance
strongly affected the blood flow in the
pelvic region thus the famous
aphrodisiac was born
[Music]
number four microwave
few people know that the microwave oven
as we know it was not invented on
purpose
a Raytheon employee engineer Percy
Spencer had been testing radar equipment
and noticed that microwaves from an
active radar melted a chocolate bar in
his pocket Percy saw an opportunity in
this and put some corn into the
magnetron and it started to pop
immediately that was the discovery of
the century
number three pillows in Mesopotamia
pillows were an attribute of wealthy
people while hard headrests were used to
keep pluggin and insects out of people's
hair and face in ancient China it was
believed that soft clothes were useless
while hard headrests made of bamboo jade
porcelain wood or bronze gave strength
and protection from demon
[Music]
number two teabags
in 1904 Thomas Sullivan a tea and coffee
importer from New York decided to sell
tea with more style by pouring it into
silk bags his customers found the
novelty appealing but for quite another
reason it turned out to be more
convenient to brew the tea right in the
forest bags as a result sales
skyrocketed and the idea became
universally popular number one
high-heeled
in ancient Egypt high heels were a sign
of the status of high officials who wore
high-heeled Footwear to religious
rituals this included both men and women
such shoes were also favored by butchers
to avoid walking in life while Persian
equestrians used high heel to hold on
when shooting their bows in medieval
Europe high heels were a privilege of
the aristocracy becoming more popular
later finally in the 20th century the
famous stiletto heels were invented
which story has impressed you the most
share your thoughts in the comments
below don't forget to hit the like
button below and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]